# CeeloDiceAndroid
This mobile app is a two player game based on Cee-lo which consists of eight different activities. These activities are as follows: (1) Login, (2) Register, (3) Main Menu, (4) Statistics, (5) Game, (6) Game Rules, (7) Leaderboard, and (8) Modify Account. These activities will adhere to a user-friendly interface and allow both screen orientations (excluding Game, Modify Account, and Register activities).

When starting the app, the user can either login or register. Both of the Login and Register activities are connected to the SQLite Database. Upon logging in, the user is sent to the Main Menu activity where there are several options to choose from. These options include: (1) the menu bar dropdown, (2) Start Game button, (3) and the Leaderboard button. If the user selects Leaderboards it will be display all the accounts on the users phone with their specific statistics. The menu bar dropdown consists of (1) Statistics, (2) How To Play, (3) Modify Account, and (4) Logout options. Player one’s initials are grabbed from the SQLite Database and player two must enter his/her initials to make it easier to differentiate the both of them. Statistics displays the current statistics for wins, losses, and score. How To Play displays the rules of Cee-lo to help players learn the game. Modify Account allows a user to change his/her account username, email, and/or password. Logout allows the user to log out of the game and sends the user back to the Login activity.
If the user clicks Start Game, the app directs them to the Game activity. The Game activity uses the getStringExtra method to retrieve the initials of both players from the Main Menu. The game starts by Player 1 and Player 2 rolling rolling a die to see who goes first via swiping. The swiping gesture that rolls the dice is implemented though overriding the onFling method of the GestureDetector. OnGestureListener Interface described in chapter 7. The player who rolls the higher die value goes first. There are different dice combinations that can cause the player to either win instantly, lose instantly, reroll, or attain a “two-of-a-kind” roll in which the third die value is either compared to the opponent’s third die value (if they attain “two-of-a-kind” as well) to see who has the higher value (assuming if the opponent does not instantly win or lose). In other words, to set a point the player must roll two of the same die where the third die is his/her point. To win a round when a player sets point, you must attain a higher point or a die combination for an automatic win. To win instantly, the player must roll three copies of the same number at once (“three-of-a-kind”) or roll a 4, 5, and a 6 at the same time. To lose instantly, the player must roll 1, 2, and 3 at the same time. Players must reroll whenever they do not set a point or roll a combination (automatic win, automatic loss, or a “two-of-a-kind”).

Specifications
The minimum SDK level that this app is runnable on is API 17 (Android 4.2, Jelly Bean), while the target SDK level is API 26 (Android 8.0, Oreo).
